Router is a Networking device routes the data packet between different computer networks.

The Router1X3 project design follows a packet based protocol which receives network packet from a source and routes to any one of the three destinations depending upon the address given by the source in the header byte.

The Router1X3 design contains 4 submodules (Router_fifo, Router_synchronizer, Router_Fsm, Router_register) which are instantiated at top module (Router_top).

ROUTER PACKET:
The start of the new packet is indicated by asserting packet valid signal and at end of the current packet is indicated by deasserting the packet valid signal. The packet contains 3 parts. (Header,Payload, parity) such that each of 8 bits width and payload can extend b/w 1 to 63 bytes.

HEADER: It contains Destination address of 2 bits which specifies to which FIFO the data has to be write and length of the data (6 bits) specifies the number of data byes.

PAYLOAD: contains the data information which is in terms of bytes.

PARITY: Contains the security check of the packet. It is calculated as bitwise parity over the header and payload bytes of packet.

Features of Router1X3 are:
->Packet Routing :Packet is driven from the input port and is routed to anyone output port, based on the address of the destination network
-> Packet Checking : An Error detection technique that tests the integrity of digital data being transmitted b/w Server & Client with out corrupted.
-> Reset: It is an active low Synchronous input that reset the router and Router FIFOs are made empty and the validout signals are go low which indicates that no valid packet is detected on output data bus.
-> Sending Packet : Refers to input protocol
-> Receiving Packet : Refers to output protocol

ROUTER_FIFO : The FIFO is 9 bits width and 16 Locations as depth. It works on the system clock and is reset witha synchronous active low reset. It is also internally reset signal by an internal soft reset signal which is active high that is generated by synchronizer, during the time out state of Router. The write operation takes place only when the fifo is not full. The read operation takes place when FIFO is not empty.

The memory Size of Router is 16 X 9. The extra bit in data width is appended in order to detect the header byte. 9th bit is 1 for header byte and 0 for remaining bytes.

Router SYNCHRONIZER: It provides synchronization between FSM and FIFOs. Synchronization enables the write operation on fifo depending on Address. It also enables thebsoftreset signal to reset the FIFOs if the read enable signal is not high for about 30 clock cycles.

ROUTER FSM : It acts as a controller for all the submodules which generates the control signals when a new packet is received by Router. Depending upon these control signals, the other submodules transfers the packet to output port.

ROUTER REGISTER: It Acts like a storage module where it contains four internal registers i.e., Header byte which holds the header and fifo full state byte which holds the data when fifo is full , internal parity which calculates the parity by bitwise operation and external parity which holds the actual parity generated by packet. Error igenerated in the Register to represent the accuracy of the Packet that is reached to destination. Error signal is 1 when the internal parity doesn't match with external parity. Error signal is 0 if internal parity matches with external parity.
